README.md, before:

# logurt

**logurt** is a simple application that ingests logs and serves them in real time over Websocket.
It is designed to be used in a Kubernetes cluster in tandem with Fluentbit / Fluentd.

## Configuration

logurt is configured using environment variables.

- `API_SECRET`: The secret to communicate with the API. This needs to be shared with the applications that call the API.
- `JWT_SIGNING_KEY`: The secret to use for signing JWT tokens. This needs to be sufficiently long and random.
- `LOG_INGESTION_KEY`: The key to use for protecting log ingestion endpoints. This needs to be set in Fluentbit
  configuration as a header.
- `JWT_EXPIRATION_MINUTES`: The number of minutes to set the JWT token expiration to. Defaults to `60`.
- `PORT`: The port to listen on. Defaults to `8080`.

## Endpoints

### Request signing

Available at `/api/sign`.  
Signs a log request and returns a JWT token that is valid for the next `JWT_EXPIRATION_MINUTES` minutes.

```http request
POST /api/sign
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Token api_secret_here

{
  "namespace": "myapp", // required
  "pod": "mypod",  // optional
  "container": "mycontainer"  // optional
}
```

returns

```json
{
  "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE2NDgyMDAxNTUsIm5hbWVzcGFjZSI6Im5zIiwicG9kIjoid2ViIiwiY29udGFpbmVyIjoiIn0.-NNQN-zs_vYttHYcMtjecv7id-JHs1fZ6cWr0vj_Zso",
  "url": "/logs/ws?token=eyj..."
}
```

Then the token can be passed in the `Authorization` header of the request as `Authorization: Bearer eyj...`
or in the query string as `?token=eyj...` when connecting to Websocket endpoint.

### Log endpoint

Available at `/logs/ws`.  
This endpoint is used to serve logs over Websocket.
Requires a valid JWT token in the `Authorization` header or query string.

```
GET https://mylogurt.com/logs/ws?token=eyj...
```
```
GET https://mylogurt.com/logs/ws
Authorization: Bearer eyj...
```

This will return the logs in the plaintext format.

### Log ingestion endpoint

Available at `/_ingest/fluentbit`.    
This endpoint is used for ingesting logs as JSON. It is meant to be used by Fluentbit.

Requires a valid token in the `Authorization` header as `Authorization: Token ingestion_key_here`

Expects the log payloads to be in the following JSON format:

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2020-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "log": "my log message",
  "kubernetes": {
    "namespace": "myapp",
    "pod": "mypod",
    "container": "mycontainer"
  }
}
```

## Usage

You can run logurt locally using the following command. You need to pass in a couple of secrets
to protect the endpoints.

```shell
docker run -it --rm 8080:8080 \
  -e PORT=8081 \
  -e API_SECRET=secret \
  -e JWT_SIGNING_KEY=1234567890qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm \
  -e LOG_INGESTION_KEY=log \
  abdusco/logurt
```

## Kubernetes deployment

To deploy logurt to a Kubernetes cluster, you need to have a working Fluentbit/Fluentd setup, deployed as a `DaemonSet`.

### Fluentbit configuration

Fluentbit needs to be configured to ingest Kubernetes logs, and to use the `http` output option.

```
[FILTER]  # this is most likely already set up
    Name  kubernetes
    Match  kube.*
    Kube_URL  https://kubernetes.default.svc:443
    Kube_CA_File  /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt
    Kube_Token_File  /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
    Kube_Tag_Prefix  kube.var.log.containers.
    Merge_Log  On
    Merge_Log_Key  log_processed
    K8S-Logging.Parser  On
    K8S-Logging.Exclude  Off

[OUTPUT]  # this needs to be added
    Name  http
    Match  kube.*
    Host  logurt.logging.svc.cluster.local
    URI   /_ingest/fluentbit
    Port  8080
    Format  json
    Json_date_key  timestamp
    Json_date_format  iso8601
    Header  Authorization Token $key  # this is the ingestion key passed to logurt
```

## Kubernetes spec

Below is a minimal example of a Kubernetes deployment. Apply it using `kubectl`, `helm`, `terraform` or any other viable
tool.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: logurt
  namespace: logging
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: logurt
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: logurt
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: app
          image: abdusco/logurt:latest
          envFrom:
            - secretRef:
                name: logurt-secrets
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: logurt
  namespace: logging
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: logurt
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: logurt-secrets
  namespace: logging
type: Opaque
stringData:
  # generate secure random strings using `openssl rand -hex 32`
  API_SECRET: api-secret-here
  JWT_SIGNING_KEY: jwt-signing-secret-here
  LOG_INGESTION_KEY: log-ingestion-key-here
```

Commit message:

fix: Remove log ingestion key, reuse API secret

README.md, after:

# logurt

**logurt** is a simple application that ingests logs and serves them in real time over Websocket.
It is designed to be used in a Kubernetes cluster in tandem with Fluentbit / Fluentd.

## Configuration

logurt is configured using environment variables.

- `API_SECRET`: The secret to communicate with the API. This needs to be shared with the applications that call the API.
  It's also used for protecting log ingestion endpoints. This needs to be set in Fluentbit
  configuration as a header.
- `JWT_SIGNING_KEY`: The secret to use for signing JWT tokens. This needs to be sufficiently long and random.
- `JWT_EXPIRATION_MINUTES`: The number of minutes to set the JWT token expiration to. Defaults to `60`.
- `PORT`: The port to listen on. Defaults to `8080`.

## Endpoints

### Request signing

Available at `/api/sign`.  
Signs a log request and returns a JWT token that is valid for the next `JWT_EXPIRATION_MINUTES` minutes.
Requires API secret passed in the `Token` header.

```http request
POST /api/sign
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Token api_secret_here

{
  "namespace": "myapp", // required
  "pod": "mypod",  // optional
  "container": "mycontainer"  // optional
}
```

returns

```json
{
  "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE2NDgyMDAxNTUsIm5hbWVzcGFjZSI6Im5zIiwicG9kIjoid2ViIiwiY29udGFpbmVyIjoiIn0.-NNQN-zs_vYttHYcMtjecv7id-JHs1fZ6cWr0vj_Zso",
  "url": "/logs/ws?token=eyj..."
}
```

Then the token can be passed in the `Authorization` header of the request as `Authorization: Bearer eyj...`
or in the query string as `?token=eyj...` when connecting to Websocket endpoint.

### Log endpoint

Available at `/logs/ws`.  
This endpoint is used to serve logs over Websocket.
Requires a valid JWT token in the `Authorization` header or query string.

```
GET https://mylogurt.com/logs/ws?token=eyj...
```

```
GET https://mylogurt.com/logs/ws
Authorization: Bearer eyj...
```

This will return the logs in the plaintext format.

### Log ingestion endpoint

Available at `/_ingest/fluentbit`.    
This endpoint is used for ingesting logs as JSON. It is meant to be used by Fluentbit.

Requires a valid token in the `Authorization` header as `Authorization: Token api_key_here`

Expects the log payloads to be in the following JSON format:

```json
{
  "timestamp": "2020-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "log": "my log message",
  "kubernetes": {
    "namespace": "myapp",
    "pod": "mypod",
    "container": "mycontainer"
  }
}
```

## Usage

You can run logurt locally using the following command. You need to pass in a couple of secrets
to protect the endpoints.

```shell
docker run -it --rm 8080:8080 \
  -e PORT=8081 \
  -e API_SECRET=secret \
  -e JWT_SIGNING_KEY=1234567890qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm \
  abdusco/logurt
```

## Kubernetes deployment

To deploy logurt to a Kubernetes cluster, you need to have a working Fluentbit/Fluentd setup, deployed as a `DaemonSet`.

### Fluentbit configuration

Fluentbit needs to be configured to ingest Kubernetes logs, and to use the `http` output option.

```
[FILTER]  # this is most likely already set up
    Name  kubernetes
    Match  kube.*
    Kube_URL  https://kubernetes.default.svc:443
    Kube_CA_File  /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt
    Kube_Token_File  /var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token
    Kube_Tag_Prefix  kube.var.log.containers.
    Merge_Log  On
    Merge_Log_Key  log_processed
    K8S-Logging.Parser  On
    K8S-Logging.Exclude  Off

[OUTPUT]  # this needs to be added
    Name  http
    Match  kube.*
    Host  logurt.logging.svc.cluster.local
    URI   /_ingest/fluentbit
    Port  8080
    Format  json
    Json_date_key  timestamp
    Json_date_format  iso8601
    Header  Authorization "Token api_key_here"  # this is the api key passed to logurt
```

## Kubernetes spec

Below is a minimal example of a Kubernetes deployment. Apply it using `kubectl`, `helm`, `terraform` or any other viable
tool.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: logurt
  namespace: logging
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: logurt
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: logurt
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: app
          image: abdusco/logurt:latest
          envFrom:
            - secretRef:
                name: logurt-secrets
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: logurt
  namespace: logging
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: logurt
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: logurt-secrets
  namespace: logging
type: Opaque
stringData:
  # generate secure random strings using `openssl rand -hex 32`
  API_SECRET: api-secret-here
  JWT_SIGNING_KEY: jwt-signing-secret-here
  LOG_INGESTION_KEY: log-ingestion-key-here
```
